# RFM-analysis-using-tableau
This project aims to find the underlying buying patterns of the customers of an automobile part manufacturer based on the past 3 years of the Company's transaction data and hence recommend customized marketing strategies for different segments of customers.
#Problem Statement: An automobile parts manufacturing company has collected data of transactions for 3 years. They do not have any in-house data science team, thus they have hired you as their consultant. Your job is to use your magical data science skills to provide them with suitable insights about their data and their customers. genda & Executive Summary of the data #Contents of the presentation About Data (Info, Shape, Summary Stats, your assumptions about data) Exploratory Analysis and Inferences Univariate, Bivariate, and multivariate analysis using data visualization Weekly, Monthly, Quarterly, Yearly Trends in Sales Sales Across different Categories of different features in the given data Summarize the inferences from the above analysis #customer Segmentation using RFM analysis (make 4 segments) What is RFM? What all parameters used and assumptions made Output table head Inferences from RFM Analysis and identified segments Who are your best customers? (give at least 5) Which customers are on the verge of churning? (give at least 5) Who are your lost customers? (give at least 5) Who are your loyal customers? (give at least 5)

https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/aayush.gupta6448/viz/marketinganalysis_16507158063630/Sheet15[RFM.csv](https://github.com/Aayush555666/RFM-analysis-using-tableau/files/9418442/RFM.csv) Marketing+and+retail+analysis.pptx
